tests/E2E/README.md, before:

# PrestaShop Functional Tests
## Summary
PrestaShop functional end2end tests are based on the following stack:
* [mocha](https://mochajs.org/)
* [chai](http://chaijs.com/)
* [webdriver.io](http://webdriver.io/)
* [selenium](http://www.seleniumhq.org/)
* [PageObject pattern](https://martinfowler.com/bliki/PageObject.html)

## Requirements
### Software needed
To run these tests you have to install
* [node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/), the minimum required version is 4.0.0
* [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/get-npm), the minimum required version is 2.14.2
* [java](https://java.com/fr/download/), the minimum required version is 8
* [Google Chrome](https://www.google.com/chrome/browser/desktop/index.html), the minimum required version is 58
* [mysql](https://www.mysql.com)
* poppler-utils for Ubuntu users
> Note:
> To install poppler-utils execute:
> apt-get install poppler-utils
* xpdf for OSX users
> Note:
> xpdf can be installed via homebrew:
> brew install xpdf


### PrestaShop
* Prestashop with the following requirements:
- Installation in **English** with setting country to **France** (or you may change some assertions like the separator “,” or “.”, “€” or “$” or “£” or …)
- A user in Back Office with **SuperAdmin** rights and the following information:
* **Login**: demo@prestashop.com
* **Password**: prestashop_demo

This command line does it for you (you need a mysql user presta:presta with the right to create a database on localhost)
```
php install/index_cli.php --language=en --country=fr --domain=localhost --db_server=localhostr --db_user=presta --db_name=presta --DB_PASSWD=presta --firstname=Foo --lastname=Bar --email=demo@prestashop.com --password=prestashop_demo --db_create=1
```
> Note:
> Or you can run the installation script via the npm script specific-test


### npm dependencies

To install npm dependencies, selenium-server, chromedriver and geckodriver you have to run this command on the root directory of the functional tests
```
cd tests/E2E
npm install
```
## How to run the tests
You will need two shell windows, one to run selenium, one to run the tests.

### Launch selenium-standalone

Then you have to launch selenium-standalone
```
npm run start-selenium
```

Wait until you see:

```
...
Selenium started
```

### Check it is working

```
npm run sanity-check
```

### Launch test suite

#### Regular tests
If you want to run only the most important partial configuration tests and you have PrestaShop installed on **localhost** you can simply run the campaign **Regular**
```
npm test
```
If you want to
  * Launch installation before running tests => you have to add your database parameters
  * Specify an URL for your shop => you have to set the **URL** parameter
  * Specify a module to install => you have to set the **MODULE** parameter

```
npm test -- --URL=FrontOfficeURL --INSTALL=true --DB_SERVER=DataBaseUser --DB_PASSWD=DataBasePassword --DB_USER=DataBaseUser --LANGUAGE=language --COUNTRY=country --MODULE=DataTechNameModule
```
* **URL**: **(Optional)** Front office URL of your PrestaShop website without the “http://” (default to **localhost**)
* **MODULE**: **(Optional)** Module technical name to install (default to "gadwords")
* **INSTALL**: **(Optional)** Boolean option : set it to **true** if you want to run the installation script (default to **false**)
* **TEST_ADDONS**: **(Optional)** Boolean option : set it to **true** if you want disable check with Addons API (default to **false**)
* **LANGUAGE**: **(Optional)** Language to install with (default to "en")
* **COUNTRY**: **(Optional)** Country to install with (default o "france")
* **DB_SERVER**: **(Optional)** DataBase server (default to "mysql")
* **DB_USER**: **(Optional)** DataBase user (default to "root")
* **DB_PASSWD**: **(Optional)** DataBase password (default to "doge")
* **DB_EMPTY_PASSWD**:**(Optional)** Boolean option : set it to **true** if you have no password

#### Specific test
If you want to run test only on specific parts (for example products), you have to run this command:

```
path=high/02_product npm run specific-test -- --URL=FrontOfficeURL
```

* **path**: **(Required)** path of directory you want to test
* **URL**: **(Optional)** Front office URL of your PrestaShop website without the “http://” (default to **localhost**)

>Notes:
>1) if you are running high/01_order you must set the **DIR** option
>2) if you are running high/10_module or regular/02_install_module.js you must set the **MODULE** option
>3) If you have run only the install_upgrade/01_install.js with language different and country different from "en" and "france" you need to reinstall PrestaShop in **English** with setting country to **France** So you can launch the other tests

#### High tests
If you want to run the high level tests you can run the campaign **High**

```
npm run high-test -- --URL=FrontOfficeURL --DIR=DownloadDirectory --MODULE=DataTechNameModule
```
* **URL**: **(Optional)** Front office URL of your PrestaShop website without the “http://” (default to **localhost**)
* **DIR**: **(Required)** Your download directory (exp: /home/toto/Downloads/) so we can check the downloaded invoice.
* **MODULE**: **(Optional)** Module technical name to install (default to "gadwords")

>Notes:
>
> It's not recommended to run all the campaign high tests together, it's safer to run them one by one using the script specific-test.

#### Full tests
If you want to run the high level and full configuration tests you can run the campaign **Full**

```
npm run full-test -- --URL=FrontOfficeURL --DIR=DownloadDirectory --MODULE=DataTechNameModule
```
* **URL**: **(Optional)** Front office URL of your PrestaShop website without the “http://” (default to **localhost**)
* **DIR**: **(Required)** Your download directory (exp: /home/toto/Downloads/) so we can check the downloaded invoice.
* **MODULE**: **(Optional)** Module technical name to install (default to "gadwords")

>Notes:
>
> It's not recommended to run all the campaign full tests together, it's safer to run them one by one using the script specific-test.


#### Install and Autoupgrade
If you want to run the Install, Autoupgrade and Rollback tests you can run the campaign **install_upgrade**
```
npm run install-upgrade-test -- --URL=FrontOfficeURL --DIR=DownloadDirectory --URLLASTSTABLEVERSION=LaststableversionURL --DB_SERVER=DataBaseServer --DB_USER=DataBaseUser --DB_PASSWD=DataBasePassword --RCLINK=RCDownloadlink --RCTARGET=LastStableVersionLocation --FILENAME=RCFileName --LANGUAGE=language --COUNTRY=country
```

* **URL**: **(Optional)** Front office URL of your PrestaShop website without the “http://” (default to **localhost**)
* **DIR**: **(Required)** Your download directory (exp: /home/toto/Downloads/) so we can check the downloaded invoice.
* **URLLASTSTABLEVERSION**: **(Required)** URL of the last stable version of PrestaShop (without the “http://”) from which you need to upgrade to the latest release candidate
* **LANGUAGE**: **(Optional)** Language to install with (default to "en")
* **COUNTRY**: **(Optional)** Country to install with (default o "france")
* **DB_SERVER**: **(Optional)** DataBase server (default to "mysql")
* **DB_USER**: **(Optional)** DataBase user (default to "root")
* **DB_PASSWD**: **(Optional)** DataBase password (default to "doge")
* **DB_EMPTY_PASSWD**:**(Optional)** Boolean option : set it to **true** if you have no password
* **RCTARGET**: **(Required)** Last stable version location directory (example: /project/prestashop1724/)
* **RCLINK**: **(Optional)** RC Download link, if you have already downloaded the RC you have to copy the ZIP file in the --RCTARGET admin-dev/autoupgrade/download/ and set the FILENAME option
* **FILENAME**: **(Optional)** RC file name this parameter must be mentioned if the (RCLINK) option is not indicated


>Note:
> If you want to run tests in headless mode you can set the option --HEADLESS to true (This option will not work perfectly if your chrome version is under 62.0.3175.0, especially for category, attribute and feature tests)
>
> **HEADLESS**: **(Optional)** Set it to true to run tests in headless mode (default to false)


## Running the tests with Docker

A dockerfile is provided in this folder, which allows you to run all the
tests even if you haven't followed the installation part. This however requires
Docker to be installed on your environment.

Build:

```
docker build -t prestashop/e2e .
```

The LAMP stack and the test dependancies will be installed in an image tagged
as `prestashop/e2e`.

Run:
```
docker run -ti --privileged prestashop/e2e
```

In case you want to retrieved the report and screenshot generated by the tests,
mounting volumes will help you:

```
docker run -ti --privileged -v $PWD\screenshots:/var/www/html/tests/E2E/test/screenshots -v $PWD\reports:/var/www/html/tests/E2E/mochawesome-report prestashop/e2e
```

Commit message:

Add TEST_CAMPAIGN in E2E docker image

tests/E2E/README.md, after:

# PrestaShop Functional Tests
## Summary
PrestaShop functional end2end tests are based on the following stack:
* [mocha](https://mochajs.org/)
* [chai](http://chaijs.com/)
* [webdriver.io](http://webdriver.io/)
* [selenium](http://www.seleniumhq.org/)
* [PageObject pattern](https://martinfowler.com/bliki/PageObject.html)

## Requirements
### Software needed
To run these tests you have to install
* [node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/), the minimum required version is 4.0.0
* [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/get-npm), the minimum required version is 2.14.2
* [java](https://java.com/fr/download/), the minimum required version is 8
* [Google Chrome](https://www.google.com/chrome/browser/desktop/index.html), the minimum required version is 58
* [mysql](https://www.mysql.com)
* poppler-utils for Ubuntu users
> Note:
> To install poppler-utils execute:
> apt-get install poppler-utils
* xpdf for OSX users
> Note:
> xpdf can be installed via homebrew:
> brew install xpdf


### PrestaShop
* Prestashop with the following requirements:
- Installation in **English** with setting country to **France** (or you may change some assertions like the separator “,” or “.”, “€” or “$” or “£” or …)
- A user in Back Office with **SuperAdmin** rights and the following information:
* **Login**: demo@prestashop.com
* **Password**: prestashop_demo

This command line does it for you (you need a mysql user presta:presta with the right to create a database on localhost)
```
php install/index_cli.php --language=en --country=fr --domain=localhost --db_server=localhostr --db_user=presta --db_name=presta --DB_PASSWD=presta --firstname=Foo --lastname=Bar --email=demo@prestashop.com --password=prestashop_demo --db_create=1
```
> Note:
> Or you can run the installation script via the npm script specific-test


### npm dependencies

To install npm dependencies, selenium-server, chromedriver and geckodriver you have to run this command on the root directory of the functional tests
```
cd tests/E2E
npm install
```
## How to run the tests
You will need two shell windows, one to run selenium, one to run the tests.

### Launch selenium-standalone

Then you have to launch selenium-standalone
```
npm run start-selenium
```

Wait until you see:

```
...
Selenium started
```

### Check it is working

```
npm run sanity-check
```

### Launch test suite

#### Regular tests
If you want to run only the most important partial configuration tests and you have PrestaShop installed on **localhost** you can simply run the campaign **Regular**
```
npm test
```
If you want to
  * Launch installation before running tests => you have to add your database parameters
  * Specify an URL for your shop => you have to set the **URL** parameter
  * Specify a module to install => you have to set the **MODULE** parameter

```
npm test -- --URL=FrontOfficeURL --INSTALL=true --DB_SERVER=DataBaseUser --DB_PASSWD=DataBasePassword --DB_USER=DataBaseUser --LANGUAGE=language --COUNTRY=country --MODULE=DataTechNameModule
```
* **URL**: **(Optional)** Front office URL of your PrestaShop website without the “http://” (default to **localhost**)
* **MODULE**: **(Optional)** Module technical name to install (default to "gadwords")
* **INSTALL**: **(Optional)** Boolean option : set it to **true** if you want to run the installation script (default to **false**)
* **TEST_ADDONS**: **(Optional)** Boolean option : set it to **true** if you want disable check with Addons API (default to **false**)
* **LANGUAGE**: **(Optional)** Language to install with (default to "en")
* **COUNTRY**: **(Optional)** Country to install with (default o "france")
* **DB_SERVER**: **(Optional)** DataBase server (default to "mysql")
* **DB_USER**: **(Optional)** DataBase user (default to "root")
* **DB_PASSWD**: **(Optional)** DataBase password (default to "doge")
* **DB_EMPTY_PASSWD**:**(Optional)** Boolean option : set it to **true** if you have no password

#### Specific test
If you want to run test only on specific parts (for example products), you have to run this command:

```
path=high/02_product npm run specific-test -- --URL=FrontOfficeURL
```

* **path**: **(Required)** path of directory you want to test
* **URL**: **(Optional)** Front office URL of your PrestaShop website without the “http://” (default to **localhost**)

>Notes:
>1) if you are running high/01_order you must set the **DIR** option
>2) if you are running high/10_module or regular/02_install_module.js you must set the **MODULE** option
>3) If you have run only the install_upgrade/01_install.js with language different and country different from "en" and "france" you need to reinstall PrestaShop in **English** with setting country to **France** So you can launch the other tests

#### High tests
If you want to run the high level tests you can run the campaign **High**

```
npm run high-test -- --URL=FrontOfficeURL --DIR=DownloadDirectory --MODULE=DataTechNameModule
```
* **URL**: **(Optional)** Front office URL of your PrestaShop website without the “http://” (default to **localhost**)
* **DIR**: **(Required)** Your download directory (exp: /home/toto/Downloads/) so we can check the downloaded invoice.
* **MODULE**: **(Optional)** Module technical name to install (default to "gadwords")

>Notes:
>
> It's not recommended to run all the campaign high tests together, it's safer to run them one by one using the script specific-test.

#### Full tests
If you want to run the high level and full configuration tests you can run the campaign **Full**

```
npm run full-test -- --URL=FrontOfficeURL --DIR=DownloadDirectory --MODULE=DataTechNameModule
```
* **URL**: **(Optional)** Front office URL of your PrestaShop website without the “http://” (default to **localhost**)
* **DIR**: **(Required)** Your download directory (exp: /home/toto/Downloads/) so we can check the downloaded invoice.
* **MODULE**: **(Optional)** Module technical name to install (default to "gadwords")

>Notes:
>
> It's not recommended to run all the campaign full tests together, it's safer to run them one by one using the script specific-test.


#### Install and Autoupgrade
If you want to run the Install, Autoupgrade and Rollback tests you can run the campaign **install_upgrade**
```
npm run install-upgrade-test -- --URL=FrontOfficeURL --DIR=DownloadDirectory --URLLASTSTABLEVERSION=LaststableversionURL --DB_SERVER=DataBaseServer --DB_USER=DataBaseUser --DB_PASSWD=DataBasePassword --RCLINK=RCDownloadlink --RCTARGET=LastStableVersionLocation --FILENAME=RCFileName --LANGUAGE=language --COUNTRY=country
```

* **URL**: **(Optional)** Front office URL of your PrestaShop website without the “http://” (default to **localhost**)
* **DIR**: **(Required)** Your download directory (exp: /home/toto/Downloads/) so we can check the downloaded invoice.
* **URLLASTSTABLEVERSION**: **(Required)** URL of the last stable version of PrestaShop (without the “http://”) from which you need to upgrade to the latest release candidate
* **LANGUAGE**: **(Optional)** Language to install with (default to "en")
* **COUNTRY**: **(Optional)** Country to install with (default o "france")
* **DB_SERVER**: **(Optional)** DataBase server (default to "mysql")
* **DB_USER**: **(Optional)** DataBase user (default to "root")
* **DB_PASSWD**: **(Optional)** DataBase password (default to "doge")
* **DB_EMPTY_PASSWD**:**(Optional)** Boolean option : set it to **true** if you have no password
* **RCTARGET**: **(Required)** Last stable version location directory (example: /project/prestashop1724/)
* **RCLINK**: **(Optional)** RC Download link, if you have already downloaded the RC you have to copy the ZIP file in the --RCTARGET admin-dev/autoupgrade/download/ and set the FILENAME option
* **FILENAME**: **(Optional)** RC file name this parameter must be mentioned if the (RCLINK) option is not indicated


>Note:
> If you want to run tests in headless mode you can set the option --HEADLESS to true (This option will not work perfectly if your chrome version is under 62.0.3175.0, especially for category, attribute and feature tests)
>
> **HEADLESS**: **(Optional)** Set it to true to run tests in headless mode (default to false)


## Running the tests with Docker

A dockerfile is provided in this folder, which allows you to run all the
tests even if you haven't followed the installation part. This however requires
Docker to be installed on your environment.

Build:

```
docker build -t prestashop/e2e .
```

The LAMP stack and the test dependancies will be installed in an image tagged
as `prestashop/e2e`.

Run:
```
docker run -ti --privileged prestashop/e2e
```

By default all the tests will be run. You can ask for another campaign by setting the `TEST_CAMPAIGN` env parameter.

Example with regular suite:
```
docker run -ti --privileged -e TEST_CAMPAIGN=test prestashop/e2e
```

In case you want to retrieved the report and screenshot generated by the tests,
mounting volumes will help you:

```
docker run -ti --privileged -v $PWD\screenshots:/var/www/html/tests/E2E/test/screenshots -v $PWD\reports:/var/www/html/tests/E2E/mochawesome-report prestashop/e2e
```
